#summary How to use Tamanoir / user manual
#labels Phase-Design

= Introduction =

This page explains how to use the Tamanoir user interface to correct you picture scans.


= Details =

*Caution:* For the moment, only color slides are well supported for dust detection. See ToDo for future developments.

Tamanoir's GUI is divided in several sections:
  * *Load/save buttons* on top line
  * *Global picture display* on left
  * *Detailed views of dust and correction* on right
  * *Action buttons* to correct or skip correction
  * *Options:* film type, correction accelerations

Each button/view contains a tooltip which explains its function.

----

= Load / Save =

  * *Load:* Open a dialog to choose a file, then pre-process the picture with current options/settings, and goes to first detected dust
  * *Save:* save current image with the *same name than original*. A backup is stored with a _-copy_ extension.


= Global view / Main display =

The large image display shows the grayscaled version of input image, with inertion of small rectangles :
  * *Blue rectangle* where the dust has just been detected. This dust is displayed in blue in global view, and a crop of the neighbouring is shown in detail views (at scale 1:1).
  * *Green rectangles* where the proposed corrections have been accepted by the user ("Apply" button).
  * *Yellow rectangles* where the proposed corrections have been refused by the user ("Skip" button).
  * *Red rectangles* where the process could not find any fitting correction.


= Detail views =

To be completed.


= Action buttons : Auto/Skip/Apply =

To be completed.



= Film settings : type and resolution =

To be completed.


= Action options =

To be completed.



