#summary This page explains how to build Tamanoir on Windows.

= Introduction =

This page explains how to build Tamanoir on Windows.


= Details =

Building Tamanoir on Windows.

You need :
  - OpenCV : to load/save images, to manipulate some image buffers (libs cxcore, highgui)
  - Qt4 for Windows
  - an IDE/... : you should try QtCreator, because the installer package provides Qt4, MinGW compiler and the IDE.

----
==QtCreator==

Download : http://trolltech.com/developer/qt-creator/qt-creator
Then install

----
== OpenCV ==

=== OpenCV *without* 16bit TIFF support ===


=== OpenCV *with* 16bit TIFF support ===
Download patched version for 16bit support : [http://cseyve.free.fr/Vision/download/opencv-tiff16bit.tar.bz2]

I don't now how to compile it for Windows.

----
== Qt4 (if not using QtCreator) ==

Download : [http://trolltech.com/downloads/opensource]
Install Qt4. For example: 
{{{
apt-get install qt4-dev
}}}

----
== Tamanoir ==

Download snapshot : 
{{{
# Non-members may check out a read-only working copy anonymously over HTTP.
svn checkout http://tamanoir.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ tamanoir-read-only
}}}

Compile Tamanoir :
  * with QtCreator : open the Tamanoir.pro project file, then build and run.

=Debian package=

Tamanoir use the "native Debian packagin" model, where the debian/ foler and its control files are maintained in the upstream repository. Instructions to build a Debian package should work on any Debian-based distribution (Ubuntu for instance):
{{{
$ svn checkout http://tamanoir.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ tamanoir
$ cd tamanoir
$ dpkg-buildpackage -uc -us -rfakeroot
}}}

Binary packages for Debian Lenny i386 are available, see http://zerodeux.net/debian/